# Docker Jekyll

A Docker container that listens for HTTP posts and generates a Jekyll website
in an automated manner. With this container you could self-host a Jekyll website
and add support to auto-deploy it when a push is made on Github or Bitbucket.

## Build

```
docker build -t mikroways/jekyll .
```

# Usage

This container listens on port 80 and serves static content located on /data
directory. Content in that directory can be mounted from a volume or just
deployed through auto-deployment built-in capability.

## Running

To run the container just execute the following command (in this example, it
will clone and serve Mikroways' website).

```
docker run -p 8080:80 -d -e "HTTP_USER=mikroways" -e "HTTP_PASS=password" -e
"REPO_URL=https://github.com/Mikroways/mikroways.net.git" mikroways/jekyll
```

After starting, the container will deploy the website for the first time and
generate the secret for automated deployment. Check the container logs and look
for the string "Secret to send posts with" to get the secret:

```
Secret to send posts with:
5se7xfS2waUwwD9Nw4c0k4tvIuqGHUTDuALkeOk8W1Tflxn8xIJcA-O0Ay3S366Z
```

Save that string as you will need it to set up POSTS requests to automate
deployment.

## Automated deployment

In order to use automated deployment, this container requires three environment
variables to work:

* **HTTP_USER**: username for HTTP authentication.
* **HTTP_PASS**: password for HTTP authentication.
* **REPO_URL**: git repository URL to clone from.

Once the container is up and running, you need to access http://hostname/deploy,
provide the correct username and password and send the auto generated secret in
a POST request with application/x-www-form-urlencoded content-type. That will
trigger the deployment, which will be done in the following manner:

* The repository will be cloned (or updated) in /tmp directory.
* bundle install and bundle exec jekyll build commands will be executed.
* The resulting HTML generated files in _site directory will be moved to /data,
  replacing existing files.

The first time the deployment is run can take some time (depending on repository
size, internet connection, etc.). Following deployments should be much quicker,
as it will just download changes and install only new gems.

Note that /data directory can be mounted from a volume, but that is not a
requirement.

## Test

To test everything works OK follow the steps below.

1. Access the website: after the first deploy has finished you should see the
  website online.
2. Force deployment:

```
curl -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded" -d
'secret=5se7xfS2waUwwD9Nw4c0k4tvIuqGHUTDuALkeOk8W1Tflxn8xIJcA-O0Ay3S366Z'
http://mikroways:password@hostname/deploy
```

If it worked OK you will see in the container logs that the deployment process
has started. If anything was changed in the remote repository, you will see
changes applied after deployment finishes.

## Automation with Github

Github configuration requires going to Settings -> Webhooks & services -> Create
webhook.

* **Payload URL**: http://HTTP_USER:HTTP_PASS@hostname/deploy
* **Content type**: application/x-www-form-urlencoded
* **Secret**: the one auto generated by the container. In our example is
  5se7xfS2waUwwD9Nw4c0k4tvIuqGHUTDuALkeOk8W1Tflxn8xIJcA-O0Ay3S366Z
* **Events**: Push

## License

The MIT License (MIT)

Copyright (c) 2016 Leandro Di Tommaso

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN
THE SOFTWARE.

## Authors

* Author:: Leandro Di Tommaso (<leandro.ditommaso@mikroways.net>)
